Sambhav Mehta: So whoever's not here needs to know this, this is important guys.
Sambhav Mehta: We're talking about what bed you get to sleep in this house.
Sambhav Mehta: Are you around this weekend or no?
Sambhav Mehta: No fight back tomorrow. All right, if you want, you can stay and we go to retreat. I'm so down time instruments.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, yeah, we have extra room. This is a small group. I'm serious. Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: So I'm I'm definitely flying back because I got stuff in La. But anyway, that's good. I trust you
Sambhav Mehta: alright cool. You got a quorum man. They showed up
Sambhav Mehta: applicants, room assignments for the retreat. This will be posted on base camp. Yes, and so
Sambhav Mehta: people are generally bunking with their co-founders.
Sambhav Mehta: And and to be clear literally, this is the 1st and only time our team is staying in the same house with the founders never happened before. We always get a separate house.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, exactly. Everybody's like usually doubling up.
Sambhav Mehta: Are you on the retreat registration.
Sambhav Mehta: Oh, no, that's so. Just use that. Pretend that's your name instead of coming as well. Okay, he wasn't on that one. So we'll
Sambhav Mehta: easy fix. Yeah, we'll we'll fix. There's plenty of space. There's plenty of space.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, I think I think they should. We'll get you added.
Sambhav Mehta: We'll also have to figure out, this is what we're looking at right now for carpools. So next bar.
Sambhav Mehta: like, you don't want to drive correct.
Sambhav Mehta: Sacramento.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay, yeah, it's gonna become a silly. So we wanna make sure whoever's totally totally comfortable.
Sambhav Mehta: So Anthony said he was also able to drive.
Sambhav Mehta: So this will be next car folks going early with Neil, a smile
Sambhav Mehta: driving himself. And then we're gonna have a really fun little van situation. Captain, by George, will be leaving. Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: make sure we get a big for Donald as well. Cool.
Sambhav Mehta: Yep.
Sambhav Mehta: So George has a knee bad. It's not me.
Sambhav Mehta: It'd be like a big sprinter man. Yeah, you. You'll cover.
Sambhav Mehta: I will cover it, we will.
Sambhav Mehta: because the thing is, if you attach people to the the noise
Sambhav Mehta: high level we excited.
Sambhav Mehta: So
Sambhav Mehta: we're gonna post some house rules for the retreat. We're gonna ask that you follow these really, really, carefully. This house is is like part of the program at this point. We really want to treat it with respect. They keep letting us come back and overfill the capacity and all that good stuff. We we need them to keep letting us come back. So treat all spaces with respect.
Sambhav Mehta: cleaning up after cooking taking care of checkout. We're gonna check you out individually in the morning.
Sambhav Mehta: on our last day we're gonna make sure. Like all our laundry is done. Our checklist is covered. We'll we'll talk more about that once we're there. But really being respectful of the space and each other,
Sambhav Mehta: we're gonna have some fun little activities. We're gonna introduce you to another techstars tradition.
Sambhav Mehta: if possible, Meg, I would love to chat with you after this, or at some point today about some ideas to get your reaction and feedback. The one thing that we haven't sorted out yet that we will and let you all know more about is
Sambhav Mehta: because we typically have one of our founders is a
Sambhav Mehta: executive mission star chef. We usually fly him in to do his thing to get everybody. But he broke his leg recently. So we have to adapt. So it sounds like some people are good in the kitchen in this group. So I'm interested to see if you want to have some fun together. But we have options. I'm also happy to order it.
Sambhav Mehta: so we'll work that out. But usually you have some crazy food. But
Sambhav Mehta: we'll we'll we'll figure it out together
Sambhav Mehta: for everybody.
Sambhav Mehta: So he literally was a he was at this restaurant in Chicago, called a linear.
Sambhav Mehta: I was just about to say. Then the 1st rule of being a poor guy is not to tell people what he can't do that it's been said. I have to say, yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: next time cool.
Sambhav Mehta: alright, we're gonna do Boxer group chats with each carpool and the team.
Sambhav Mehta: Drivers communicate with the team we are. We have yet to leave anyone behind. We are not starting now. Drivers are responsible for treating their people.
Sambhav Mehta: keeping their people in check, making sure they have what they're on, Meg. I'm gonna let you, Captain, beside not partially being the driver. You're the captain of your car and make sure everyone gets where they need to go.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah. But speaking of like, who who has Boxer on their phone, who has added me
Sambhav Mehta: unboxer on their phone, yeah, okay, that's good.
Sambhav Mehta: That true. Are you sure you've done this? Because usually I get a notification
Sambhav Mehta: for the learning? They have to send you a test message?
Sambhav Mehta: Okay, send me a message on Boxer, if you have it. So that I have your stuff.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay? And if you don't have Boxer download it right now, like immediately. Right now.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay.
Sambhav Mehta: you don't want random text chats. This like gives you everyone's name. Immediately I got Alex. I got Vivian. Let's go. Okay. This is what I need, because I'm gonna make these groups and George and people and all these things.
Sambhav Mehta: Good. Jonathan, I got you right.
Sambhav Mehta: Still missing some people I know they're good
Sambhav Mehta: encore. Have you done it? Just doing it right now? Okay, who else?
Sambhav Mehta: You guys are? Good.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay, alright cool.
Sambhav Mehta: If you don't do it, then you will miss out on things. Alright. We're good
Sambhav Mehta: awesome last few little notes before we bring Burhan in. Is everyone excited for the kickoff tonight? Meet some people
Sambhav Mehta: awesome. So I know we talked about like people you want to meet making those lists. Can't guarantee that everyone's going to be in the room tonight. But tonight is a chance to start meeting some of those people. So we'll have a lot of alumni, a lot of mentors people from all over the community friends of techstars, partners.
Sambhav Mehta: Some investors as well. But the ethos here is people really want to help you tactically. You won't have to like pitch anyone directly we're going to have you all introduce yourselves on stage for a minute.
Sambhav Mehta: And then from there it's gonna be just communicating with people sharing your challenges, seeing what people are willing to help with really friendly crowd. We'll have some drinks. We'll have some look, Roys.
Sambhav Mehta: beers, and all that good stuff. But it's a it's a really good chance to meet people and hang out, and space is really cool. There's a tree house.
Sambhav Mehta: Our friends over at future house are. It's a nonprofit AI research organization. So you can also learn more about what they're up to some cool stuff.
Sambhav Mehta: And that's it. Any questions?
Sambhav Mehta: Okay.
Sambhav Mehta: Rabbit times pitches.
Sambhav Mehta: Who's gonna be there?
Sambhav Mehta: You all feeling good.
Sambhav Mehta: I mean, I'll just say, like we did this once before the 1st time last program. That was good. It was a good start to kick off was this solid group, and it was like probably like
Sambhav Mehta: 50 people like 140 people. This is, I think, we have a lot of interest, a lot of people who signed up more than ever before. So
Sambhav Mehta: you know. Rc, you never actually know who's gonna show up. But
Sambhav Mehta: we're probably looking at. There's a 9 0 chance. It's like a hundred people.
Sambhav Mehta: So it might be a sizable group.
Sambhav Mehta: You guys can take advantage of that and help you meet a lot of good folks.
Sambhav Mehta: How much back space will we have on our vehicles for tomorrow
Sambhav Mehta: on Saturday. Yeah, you might want to bring your stuff here. Yeah, excess bags can be left in the founder room. That'll be locked up and safe over the weekend. No one's going to be in there. Close the curtains if you're leaving luggage in there.
Sambhav Mehta: How like? How many bags. Do you pieces? I see it's
Sambhav Mehta: we should be big bags. Yeah, downstairs.
Sambhav Mehta: I'll say, if you really want to secure you can also leave it up here this room?
Sambhav Mehta: Well, well, we got 2 min till Verhan jumps in.
Sambhav Mehta: How's everyone feeling?
Sambhav Mehta: I guess I can say a quick thing. So I posted in basecamp the slides from this morning in the talk. I know we ran over time, so I apologize, but if anyone missed anything important you can watch the final few minutes in the recording I also posted a Jtvd checkpoint example
Sambhav Mehta: for tomorrow from it's gonna be joining us for the retreat this weekend
Sambhav Mehta: that's just one reference point. It's not particularly formal. I just want to know how it's going. So if you've done interviews, how are they going? What have you learned? Talk us through your screening criteria? Any refinements or updates you need to make? And if you have any challenges, if you want to talk through any strategy to get feedback for your next steps. So 5 min each we'll talk through it. It'll be pretty chill.
Sambhav Mehta: cool, awesome. Also just flagging. A bunch of additional workshop resources will pop up in basecamp on Friday, and we are nearly up to date with recording. So if there's anything you miss. Those are all in base camp.
Sambhav Mehta: Did we introduce Sambo?
Sambhav Mehta: Hi, everyone. I think I've met most of you guys yesterday, but my name's Samba. I'm also I'm roommates with Kay there. I'm also studying at Uc. Berkeley, studying electrical engineering, computer science and business. A little bit of me. I'm super. I'm a founder myself. I try creating things here and there, a little side projects. And I'm here to learn a lot from all of you guys experienced founders. And yeah, I just can't learn a lot from you guys. And just here to have fun.
Sambhav Mehta: I don't know if we've discussed this, but we did not know that they were roommates when we hired them.
Sambhav Mehta: I'm still not over it. I don't think I will be
Sambhav Mehta: so there we got an email that there were 2 spots, and then I'm like perfect. We were both get in together and the whole time like blah blah blah! We started working out and then I think there was a call with
Sambhav Mehta: It was one link, and Neil didn't turn on the waiting room like I told him to. That's correct. Yeah, I did not behave, and that's what happened. So I enabled this meeting moment, you're welcome.
Sambhav Mehta: Burhan. How are you doing.
Burhan Syed: Good! How are you?
Sambhav Mehta: Oh, can we get this volume?
Sambhav Mehta: No, beautiful.
Sambhav Mehta: All right, let's get into Kpis. So we're on here
Sambhav Mehta: out of our Oakland Spring 24 cohort.
Sambhav Mehta: Rohan, do you want to introduce yourself a little bit?
Sambhav Mehta: We'll get into the session.
Burhan Syed: Hey, guys, I'm Brian, Us. Co-founder and CEO of Rhonda. AI. We build AI receptionist for dental service organizations which are like PE back groups that roll up hundreds of dental clinics.
Burhan Syed: Yeah, super excited.
Sambhav Mehta: Beautiful. So we discussed Kpis a little bit in that Okr session last week. But here's where we're getting into the nitty gritty how to set your kpis and Burhan's here to add color examples and lived experience of how kpis affect your business in the day to day
Sambhav Mehta: you'll be hearing more from Burhan throughout the cohort. But he is huge on data, driven decisions, and has some really interesting stories about how his Kpis have been formed. How even like the one liner you just shared has shifted over time.
Sambhav Mehta: So excited to get into it.
Sambhav Mehta: Me share real quick.
Sambhav Mehta: So that's crazy.
Sambhav Mehta: He's not gonna be in Tahoe. He is going to be
Sambhav Mehta: joining us for another session later down the line. Talk about raising money!
Sambhav Mehta: cool. So another another key thing. Why we invited Burhan. Is Burhan actually, is part of the reason why you all are here. So remember your challenge series assignments.
Sambhav Mehta: We bring in some graders. And and Burhan actually helped us evaluate some of your kpis so excited to
Sambhav Mehta: get him to share his perspective on, on how y'all are doing as well.
Sambhav Mehta: So what are the purpose of Kpis
Sambhav Mehta: focused on the right things, tracking progress?
Sambhav Mehta: Anything else?
Sambhav Mehta: Why do we use Kpis.
Sambhav Mehta: are they important to you guys like, you guys care about your like, are you using them? Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: yeah, to achieve okrs, yeah, how our product is doing, how people are reacting speakers or
Sambhav Mehta: objective understanding of how people you're reacting to your product and features. Did I see another hand
Sambhav Mehta: keeps you focused and accountable. Love it so
Sambhav Mehta: your Kpis will change over the course of your business. But it at its core.
Sambhav Mehta: We want to identify your kpis by following your customers journey so that you know what to do to grow during textures and beyond. So a little bit of a different take, people can get a little bit into the semantics of like what kpis are, what they're measuring, why, they matter but we want to understand how to make your cus how to help your customers make progress.
Sambhav Mehta: We want to identify the 2 to 3 kpis that you need to understand track and goal set to drive progress.
Sambhav Mehta: Excuse me.
Sambhav Mehta: So
Sambhav Mehta: we're gonna figure out what Kpis make sense for your business. And we're going to show how Kpis are
Sambhav Mehta: critical to your business's success.
Sambhav Mehta: So what gets measured? What gets managed? Vivian? You kind of nailed it. It's tracking your progress
Sambhav Mehta: at its core.
Sambhav Mehta: and then to to give a little bit more color as to how this to why, this matters down the road.
Sambhav Mehta: Neil, do you want to share the the trading view example.
Sambhav Mehta: Oh, yeah, I mean, we kind of
Sambhav Mehta: you mean, like the like the class investment story. Or oh, I think I shared that. But I'll remind you guys really quickly. I talked about the class in 2013 with trading view in Chicago. That's like one of the biggest outcomes of techsarts all time. They were able to identify both the metrics and other data points that it was clear that business was going to take off when we had a program. So all the founders band together, and
Sambhav Mehta: they were able to participate in the next round, and everyone shared on the outcome. And outside of that in the class
Sambhav Mehta: so obviously tracking. You know your metrics on a weekly basis. Some of you guys start to experience real traction
Sambhav Mehta: might be able to join in on the phone.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah. And they were able to identify through their Kpis that
Sambhav Mehta: they were able to scale effectively without taking on much outside capital. So there are multiple millionaires in that class just due to this investment. And it's it's 1 of the biggest outcomes for techstars of all time, despite not being necessarily the highest valuation. Of all the businesses they they were able to do this really, really, efficiently, and provide outsized outcomes, which is great.
Sambhav Mehta: Alright, so.
Sambhav Mehta: Kpis, are how you measure your progress. But I really want to tap into the fact that these are very, very, very tied to your financial model. We discussed this with Troy. It's basically a mini version of your financial model. It's how you're doing.
Sambhav Mehta: if your Kpis should be driving progress within your financial model.
Sambhav Mehta: So it's the most basic form of your model
Sambhav Mehta: and indicates whether your business is going to be successful or not.
Sambhav Mehta: We will be using financial models to create Kpis at its core. And then we'll also be using Kpis in investor updates. So one thing that
Sambhav Mehta: was present throughout all of the investor updates we saw on Monday, all of them included Kpis. It's the foundation of your fundraising narrative. It's the lines, not dots that we want to show all of your stakeholders. It's it's your traction, it's your progress.
Sambhav Mehta: So it it's also your opportunity to steer the conversation and choose the narrative that you want to tell and get investors to continue reaching out and and continue the conversation. Rohan, I don't know if you want to tap in onto like, how you
Sambhav Mehta: see.
Burhan Syed: I am the totally wrong person to talk about investor updates. I, I basically stopped sending investor updates after techstars which you should not do.
Burhan Syed: but I'm a proponent for doing it in certain situations. I think I did it the right way. But yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: Little troubleshooting big, shiny head.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay?
Sambhav Mehta: at a high level we like to think about. Kpis is almost a pyramid. At the top is, gonna be your primary or North Star metrics.
Sambhav Mehta: These are the main guiding forces that show measurable progress in your business.
Sambhav Mehta: So to go through what are some examples that you think of as as potential North Star metrics?
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: okay, like, how many calls? I have, how many tests. And then how many
Sambhav Mehta: sales funnel interest. We'll get into that in a bit.
Sambhav Mehta: Right?
Sambhav Mehta: So at its core, revenue is huge.
Sambhav Mehta: or this is more B to C, but usage and engagement can be ways to lean into this and and better understand it.
Sambhav Mehta: Engagement as well for B, 2 B and enterprise
Sambhav Mehta: contracts, pilots, retention, metrics, and then for product development, there are a couple of ways you can look at that. We'll get into ways to measure product progress a little bit later in program. But if you wanna get a head start, you should read shape up. There are a bunch of different methodologies, but that's a good one.
Sambhav Mehta: So do we notice anything absent
Sambhav Mehta: from the b 2 b section
Sambhav Mehta: right?
Sambhav Mehta: Switching these other teams.
Sambhav Mehta: To me, it's A, there's a lot of it. Also that is lacking. Indicators versus legal indicators
Sambhav Mehta: love to get some better sense of
Sambhav Mehta: kind of conversion, matrix, or totally, totally, absolutely
Sambhav Mehta: anyone else have any comments here
Sambhav Mehta: cool. So these are absolutely lagging indicators. Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: do you have like a proper metric to track, you know?
Sambhav Mehta: Control?
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah. So it's really hard to track product development. They're looking at lines of code features shipped. How else should be they be thinking about it, Burhan, how are you? How are you doing that?
Burhan Syed: Velocity, I mean I don't know how many of you guys use issue management platforms, but those are key. I think the only way to measure product development is number of issues resolved and number of product features shipped.
Burhan Syed: And so you can just track that velocity on like linear. That's what we do. But super super important.
Sambhav Mehta: Awesome in terms of the little sneaky thing that's absent up there unpaid pilots
Sambhav Mehta: anything where you're not making money.
Burhan Syed: Pilots are not real pilots.
Sambhav Mehta: It's not. It's not real. Yeah, yeah, like, you do something afterwards.
Sambhav Mehta: It may be discomfortable just to get them in a client. What do you think.
Burhan Syed: Sorry I did not hear anything he said.
Sambhav Mehta: So just reminding everyone those mics for how folks hear you.
Sambhav Mehta: but at cost pilots where people are paying for it. But you're not making any profit.
Burhan Syed: I mean, yeah, I guess it's a good indicator. But realistically, you gotta figure out why you're not charging them. More than that. Is there a price, sensitivity issue? Or is it purely just? Let's prove out thesis and then charge them more right?
Burhan Syed: If there's price sensitivity, then that's a problem. Because if you can never be profitable, that's an issue.
Sambhav Mehta: It's not the end of the world, because by having a little bit of friction, you want friction, right? So so they're actually having skin in the game. But I think we're on saying, and I'm sure this is your standard. He's interested in actually making money as soon as possible.
Sambhav Mehta: Right? So definitely
Sambhav Mehta: send
Sambhav Mehta: just question on revenue. So you know, as a start list, and we have a lot of volatility on like initial revenue. And if we showed as a Kpi to investors that we're doing updates. How do we like? What's the best rate? So
Sambhav Mehta: like communicate a couple of months
Sambhav Mehta: so early stage revenue is an unstable indicator. How do you explain downtrends over the course of several months? If the progress isn't totally up into the right.
Burhan Syed: Wait. This is fundraising, wise.
Sambhav Mehta: Or just like general, just in general.
Sambhav Mehta: how to provide updates when when things are going wrong. I think. This is less of a Kpi thing and more of a communication thing like we discussed in the updates talk. We want to see what you're doing about it and how you're understanding challenges.
Sambhav Mehta: So
Sambhav Mehta: why is revenue going down? And we'll we'll talk more about secondary kpis, and how you can measure that, identify the problems and communicate about them, but that
Sambhav Mehta: if it's an intentional slowdown, then it's a storytelling thing. If it's not intentional, then we need to dig further into secondary kpis and understand where the leaky leaky bucket is and how to fix it
Sambhav Mehta: like for primary metrics.
Sambhav Mehta: for early stage Startup, I guess, is revenue kind of the right like North Star, because
Sambhav Mehta: sometimes revenue kind of baked in the idea of like price, this can impact that you're so focused on changing price. I'm trying to like balance out like
Sambhav Mehta: this is the right time to focus on that, because at 1 point you do want to see if they pay. That's 1 indicator. That's pro for that. At the same time
Sambhav Mehta: they also have situations where you're like 2 folks not right here, like not even working together.
Sambhav Mehta: Let's see if, like revenue is a good primary metric at the early stage.
Sambhav Mehta: are on balance between focusing on usage and product versus revenue as an early stage startup where it is. Gonna get too focused on price sensitivity and playing around with that versus
Sambhav Mehta: focusing on other stuff.
Burhan Syed: I think there's a distinction to be made between b 2 B+B, 2 CI think, for B, 2 C. Yes, there's other North Star metrics to target other than revenue. But if you're talking on a pure b 2 b play, then there is no other metric that is more important than revenue. In fact, there's only one metric that really matters, and that's revenue. I don't think pricing. I don't think pricing matters as much right. I think it's just
Burhan Syed: how are you pricing? And what is the revenue relative to that pricing?
Burhan Syed: It's like, hey? I had $200 in revenue last month, but we were only priced at $10 this month. We've got a thousand dollars in revenue, but we up the pricing to a hundred bucks that that matters.
Sambhav Mehta: I I think this one's relevant to the Kpis, but it's more about like what you do with them. So like you got your Kpis say something is not going. If everything's going good, then whatever that's great. But say, it's not going as good. At what point like do you have to immediately like it's a 1 time. Okay, it's not great fine. Let's how it plays out. Do we like? Do you do on a 2 month base 3 month basis and then like, do you take action on it like at what point you say like, now, I need to act on this.
Burhan Syed: I think this is the right time to bring up my my firing Smb story. I don't know
Burhan Syed: if you order to wait until later.
Sambhav Mehta: Good.
Burhan Syed: So we launched our 1st enterprise customer in September, and in tandem with launching that customer, we decided we're gonna also target smbs so like individual clinics.
Burhan Syed: And in November we had onboarded like a couple dozen, maybe a dozen dental clinics that were individual practices. And right around the halfway mark of November we started to see churn. So in fact, we started to see very high churn like 50% churn. And so then we looked into. Why, that was happening, and pretty much the secondary metric for us underneath, churn turned out to be
Burhan Syed: caller, drop off rate, and just call volume in general.
Burhan Syed: So if a clinic saw less than 10 calls after hours or during, during on hours like as overflow overflow, being like if the call would get missed. We pick it up
Burhan Syed: if they saw less than 10 calls a day. You can pretty much assume, if that happens consistently for a week that that clinic is going to turn
Burhan Syed: and that was true for us, and so started noticing that halfway point of November end of November early December started coming along.
Burhan Syed: and that churn continued within the Smbs. Yet the enterprises never churned. There was 0% churn there. So
Burhan Syed: we looked into the call volume. Yes. So basically, we saw that there was high drop off rates with patients because a lot of our Smbs had just like an older patient crowd, so like 60 plus
Burhan Syed: and then, on top of that, every single one of these clinics saw less than 10 calls per day?
Burhan Syed: And so then we started to dig into. Why did
Burhan Syed: why did these clinics even come to us if they saw less than 10 calls a day you told me that missed calls was a problem for you guys.
Burhan Syed: Well, it turns out they actually didn't look into the metrics, and they just assumed missed calls were a problem for them.
Burhan Syed: And really why they purchased our product was because they noticed that AI was becoming a big thing, and they wanted to be a part of the trend.
Burhan Syed: and so I guess the the Tldr of this is, we noticed, turn. We brought it down to like 3 major, 2 or 3 major Kpis that were driving that churn.
Burhan Syed: and that allowed us to figure out what was the underlying motivation of our customers to purchase our product in the 1st place. And once we realized that almost all of these customers purchase our product because of the hype
Burhan Syed: we decided we are no longer servicing smbs. They're too much of a headache. These people want too much and ask for too much from us compared to our enterprise customers, and there's not worth serving, because the amount of time we put into selling
Burhan Syed: to an Smb is pretty much the exact same amount of time you spend selling to an enterprise. So I guess that goes back to like opportunity size, right as a as a kpi or tracking but yeah, so we no longer service individual clinics because of that.
Burhan Syed: And I acted on that like, I think, within 2 weeks, and that was the best decision I've ever made.
Sambhav Mehta: We good good.
Sambhav Mehta: So going back to this, we notice that these are lagging indicators. What else?
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, output. Yeah, yeah, not an input?
Sambhav Mehta: There's also, I mean the the. There's a question around like what is- what is good?
Sambhav Mehta: What is retention? Metrics like? In some cases, retention. A good retention metric is going to be 90%.
Sambhav Mehta: And sometimes it could be 40%. And
Sambhav Mehta: and so kind of some sort of reference point. Yeah, deciding where the goalposts are.
Sambhav Mehta: It's interesting. So another thing about these primary metrics, they're really hard to move.
Sambhav Mehta: It's really hard if you're looking at just revenue engagement like that's really nebulous. It's it's a high level goal. But it's it's really hard to break down into
Sambhav Mehta: like, what are you gonna do about it?
Sambhav Mehta: What are you gonna do to to get more revenue?
Sambhav Mehta: So under this primary metric revenue, this is where we get into secondary kpis.
Sambhav Mehta: So these are your supporting metrics.
Sambhav Mehta: and this is more focused on what you are doing or optimizing each week. This is what we'll be talking about the most on the ground. This is what we'll be tracking most closely. They'll all be tied into a primary metric. But when people discuss kpis there they the conversation tends to surround these secondary metrics. So call volume Carla. This is where your your sales funnel steps come in as supporting metric of revenue.
Sambhav Mehta: and we want to see a sort of like nested second set of secondary metrics under each primary Kpi that you have
Sambhav Mehta: and you'll be able to optimize these week over week drive impact. Understand? What's going right? What's going wrong on a much more granular level? And
Sambhav Mehta: it's yeah conversions through different steps in the funnel.
Sambhav Mehta: So, for, for example, your if you're a short term rental business.
Sambhav Mehta: it's not immediately clear how you drive revenue. That's your primary Kpi.
Sambhav Mehta: So secondary metrics.
Sambhav Mehta: What could they be?
Sambhav Mehta: Sorry like? 3?
Sambhav Mehta: I'll just go through these like inventory on the platform price.
Sambhav Mehta: Responsiveness of post site metrics like all these things can impact. How revenue moves through their business. These are like leaky buckets that could be plugged, things that can be tracked and measured
Sambhav Mehta: the measure. Everything here is measurable. You can see how many homes you have on the platform. You can see the average price of inventory response rate of host. These are all pieces of data that you can get your hands on and see how they move over time.
Sambhav Mehta: So, Burhan, do you want to share any examples of how you set this up within your thought processes.
Burhan Syed: Yeah, I mean,
Burhan Syed: I I guess I can talk about what our 2 to 3 secondary metrics are. And how many, I guess how many people in the class are are b 2 b Saas companies.
Burhan Syed: all of them.
Burhan Syed: Okay, cool. So this will actually be real, really relevant to you.
Burhan Syed: first, st Kpi is a sales cycle. So time from prospect being engaged to deal closed.
Burhan Syed: second thing we track is conversion rate. So how many? How many customers convert after meeting number one, or meeting number 2. And then the 3rd thing we track are, how many touch points are we making per day on a on an outbound sales cycle? So
Burhan Syed: all 3 have a correlation to increasing revenue the longer the sales cycle, obviously the the slower, the revenue growth. The lower the conversion rate on meetings, the slower the revenue growth. And then what was my 3rd one.
Burhan Syed: Yeah, whatever it was that contributes pardon. What was that.
Sambhav Mehta: Touch points in your outbound sales.
Burhan Syed: Yes, yeah. So if you you know, if you're not making as many touch points per day, obviously, there's not as many people converting because you just have a smaller funnel.
Burhan Syed: I guess.
Sambhav Mehta: But.
Burhan Syed: Go for it.
Sambhav Mehta: Go ahead!
Burhan Syed: No no go.
Sambhav Mehta: How'd you land on the 2 meetings
Sambhav Mehta: version right after 2 meetings like, was there any formal experimentation, or did that just shake out.
Burhan Syed: Yeah, no, it just made a lot of sense. I guess a part of like the b 2 b sales is just figuring is just pattern recognition. Right? You figure out, okay, who are the champions versus? Who are the decision makers? And how many
Burhan Syed: real meetings do you need to have before they can make a decision. And I guess the biggest point of that is you giving up control versus retaining control. I think a lot of founders make the mistake of giving control to the customer to decide
Burhan Syed: how they want to structure the sales cycle and what steps they want to initiate versus if you just hop on and say, Hey, guys, fuck everything you're talking about. These are the meetings we're doing. And these are these are the people that are going to be on the call. And this is how we're gonna make the decision
Burhan Syed: at that point your customers are like, Oh, this makes a lot of sense. Let's just do what he's saying.
Burhan Syed: and I guess that's just trial and error, right? You you experiment and figure it out.
Burhan Syed: I don't know if that was helpful.
Sambhav Mehta: Thanks, nodding any other questions.
Sambhav Mehta: Upper hands keep you guys at the moment
Sambhav Mehta: how we got to them. Yeah, let me know. Here
Sambhav Mehta: it's how do you find a good benchmark?
Sambhav Mehta: How do you find benchmarks depending on your industry or space?
Burhan Syed: Talk.
Sambhav Mehta: We've lost. Okay?
Sambhav Mehta: Or do you just took care of old stuff?
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, there's public information. But how do you utilize it? Is there anything more nuanced than that.
Burhan Syed: I think you you really have to go reach out to incumbents in your space what we did to figure out what our. So I think a good a good kpi to focus on, for this point is the sales cycle.
Burhan Syed: I went to all the big enterprises in my space that were building adjacent products. I guess a good example is like next health.
Burhan Syed: They build online scheduling software for dental clinics. They've got like a big foothold in the market. They're 2 billion dollar company I reached out to the CEO and asked for a meeting hopped on with him and asked him like point blank, how long does it take for you to sell to an enterprise? Dso. And he said generally the decision making process from like start to end takes about 6 to 12 months.
Burhan Syed: So that's your benchmark right there.
Burhan Syed: And that's the benchmark we started with. So we know that the sales cycle is gonna take between half a year and a full year. How do we cut that down from that to like 30 to 60 days. And that's what we optimized for. And by the way, we got it down to 30 to 60 days.
Sambhav Mehta: So talking to someone who's selling to the same customers and learning from them
Sambhav Mehta: beautiful. So getting back into this.
Sambhav Mehta: your primary kpis, we don't want them to be too creative.
Sambhav Mehta: This is the benchmark of like how you're gonna be compared to others in your industry. So
Sambhav Mehta: revenue, like all these high level things. Stick to the 4 primary Kpis. Keep it easy. Keep it understandable. Make it clear where you stand within your stage. It's it's how it's how you're measured.
Sambhav Mehta: These secondary kpis.
Sambhav Mehta: your inputs, what you're doing day to day. That'll be much more specific to your business. That's where you'll figure out where your sales cycle fits in how to optimize for that engagement, whatever that looks like for you.
Sambhav Mehta: Ron. Any examples on like how you've been benchmarked.
Sambhav Mehta: or is this not too relevant to your experience?
Burhan Syed: Yeah, no, nothing on this.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay.
Burhan Syed: My my kpis are very clear.
Sambhav Mehta: Love it. Yeah, Trina, it won't.
Trina Das: Hi, so I wanted to quickly ask like, can very early stage companies like, you know, start with a different set of kpis instead of the North Star metric like, for example, in our case, number of imaging data processed is our North Star metric. But right now that's irrelevant we are instead tracking like
Trina Das: paid pilot revenues and company expenses.
Trina Das: So at this point, because that's the only thing we have going forward, our main kpis could be like Mr. Retention.
Burhan Syed: Sorry is my Wi-fi cutting out, or is hers.
Sambhav Mehta: No, no, it's it's not you. So, Trina, we lost you a little bit. But you're asking like.
Sambhav Mehta: you have this North star goal of
Sambhav Mehta: tracking, imaging processed over time. But you're interested in how Kpis change over time and and what you're measuring is different to what you expect to be measuring later down the line.
Trina Das: Our. Yeah. Can you hear me now?
Sambhav Mehta: Yes.
Trina Das: Yes, okay. So what I was asking is like, our North star metric is data units processed and our major Kpis could be Mrr. Growth and retention but right now both of them are not relevant right now. We are only tracking like paid pilot revenues and company expenses, because we don't have anything else right now. So how do we like, you know, as a startup, how do we start thinking about, like, you know, moving to the right set of kpis.
Burhan Syed: I think I got her question, even though she cut out
Burhan Syed: I'll just wait for her to come back. There we go.
Burhan Syed: I think I understand your question. I think it's a natural transition. You're probably focused on the right thing
Burhan Syed: where you're talking about in terms of data units process that's more of a
Burhan Syed: a client success metric than it is a Kpi for you guys, because you just know that you're gonna retain customers based on the number of units you process, right? Or like the success of like the processing. And and whatever you're doing, I'm just assuming that that's what you guys do. Primarily
Burhan Syed: But yeah, I think as your business progresses and you have more customers, you'll automatically shift your Kpi naturally. And I think that it's it's not necessarily a defined thing, right? You're not gonna say, oh, 3 months down the line. We're gonna shift it to this.
Trina Das: So you were saying that it's fine to start with Api, even if you're doing like the sameness like.
Trina Das: Obviously.
Burhan Syed: You cut out there for a second. What did you say.
Trina Das: I'm asking like. So you are saying that we can start with a different set of kpis. If you're in the same business and teaching the same business.
Burhan Syed: Absolutely.
Trina Das: Doesn't make sense in the beginning.
Burhan Syed: Yeah. I mean, when we were starting out like paid pilots, was the only Kpi that we really cared about right. But now pilots are no longer a thing, because you automatically know that your product is good enough to not need to pilot anymore. Right? You're just selling on contracts. And so that point. Why, why, why would you continue to track pilots, pay pilots when you're really tracking contract signed.
Sambhav Mehta: I'm I'm super curious. Since I know you've you've evaluated the submissions of all these groups what you thought kind of anything, and you're welcome to pick on anyone. Idea like what? What?
Sambhav Mehta: What kind of stood out. What would you have done differently? etc. I I think it's super helpful to get the benefit of your. You've already done the work of looking at the at these.
Sambhav Mehta: and I'm I'm not suggesting for you in particular. Just if no one wants to volunteer. Yeah, any common mistakes from the challenge series.
Burhan Syed: I I graded like a hundred 40, I think applications. So I don't even remember anyone. Any one specific application I think the overarching theme was everyone over complicated kpis ridiculously, and I actually only graded 3 or 4 applications of 4 out of 4,
Burhan Syed: and the only ones. I graded a 4 out of 4 were like very short super to the point, and they just track like what made a lot of sense. There was like B, 2 C companies that were tracking
Burhan Syed: like the number the number of screen time that, like their users, were spending on their app and stuff like that. I just didn't understand that there was 3 major metrics track daily active users and you know these other 2 things that made sense for that application. So if it didn't make sense, why I didn't grade it. Well, I don't know. I I don't think you should focus on this as much, I think. Just, you know. Talk to your customers, build a good product.
Burhan Syed: and everything else will align.
Sambhav Mehta: Of it.
Sambhav Mehta: Thank you.
Sambhav Mehta: Yes.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay. Last thing I want to double tap on here.
Sambhav Mehta: is how biased this is towards sales and engagement, not dev
Sambhav Mehta: in terms of like the primary primary revenue metric being revenue. Obviously, product has to product work has to happen. But within the context of the accelerator. This is a great, great, great chance to get validation and focus on that. So just wanna, different needs will become more prescient at different times. But
Sambhav Mehta: money is money's validation here.
Sambhav Mehta: So back to the inputs and outputs. Antoine was a you got this 1st place?
Sambhav Mehta: so things that you do versus things that happen to you.
Sambhav Mehta: With these secondary kpis that we're going to be tracking week over week. We really want to focus on on inputs, on things that you can actively do or optimize or change week over week. So anyone want to share an example like within the context of their business or something you can do to optimize the primary metric, whether it's revenue or something else.
Sambhav Mehta: Linkedin messages requesting a demo. Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: Some features.
Sambhav Mehta: Number of customer calls and outbound emails, number of meetings.
Sambhav Mehta: I'm gonna go back and show the features. So that example.
Sambhav Mehta: Let's let's drill down a little bit further. It's shipping a feature as an input.
Sambhav Mehta: What's the result of that like? Tell me the output in your mind.
Sambhav Mehta: right? So you should have a feature in the output as well.
Sambhav Mehta: Dude ideally.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay?
Sambhav Mehta: So the that the output could be like, what's an example in your mouth?
Sambhav Mehta: Like. Right now, we we wanted our system to be able to explore sub pages.
Sambhav Mehta: And as a result of that
Sambhav Mehta: he ended up scraping over a hundred pages instead of dude.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay. So what I'm hearing is actual engagement layers there. Right? So when I think about like tracking that.
Sambhav Mehta: I think it's more than just shipping the feature, there's like a few more layers to like, unravel or untangle. So I would just be mindful there not to have too generic of a layer as there. But the other language that we've been using for this is leverage.
Sambhav Mehta: You heard me say that in CEO small groups. So that's the same ideas like, what am I actively in control of that I can influence for that being so, one is shipping the feature. But within shipping the feature, what are you doing to drive the utilization of that feature with your users
Sambhav Mehta: would never measure that. So- so what's the input?
Sambhav Mehta: What are you in control of? Something that you do. So you said, I'm gonna ship a feature, and I'm like, No, there's something you're gonna do once you ship the feature to get your users to use it
Sambhav Mehta: and to interact with them or to leverage it to come back to it.
Sambhav Mehta: That's what I'm talking about. That's what you're gonna be challenged on that front. So that's the kind of input that we're trying to like. Get you all to think about
Sambhav Mehta: the did. What was the other one I was I was thinking about his. Didn't hear the rest
Sambhav Mehta: like sales meetings. Okay, that's good. Let's break it down sales meetings. And then the things you do to enable the sales team. How do you get the sales meeting? What are all the actions you take
Sambhav Mehta: that lead to that? There's emails, there's interactions. There's all these other steps that are going on. And you guys are going to get scientific and have all of these inputs measured. And as you measure all the inputs you identify which ones are the most sensitive. Where, if you disproportionately focus on that activity, it drives the behavior otherwise throughout the rest of your team. Does that make sense
Sambhav Mehta: measure of like
Sambhav Mehta: quality of code? And how many lines to use like overwrite and stuff like that? That sounds like that's a team productivity product development. That's okay. But I think what Chloe was alluded to earlier was that
Sambhav Mehta: this is like slightly biased towards sales and engagement as opposed to some of the progress on the team. Those are kpis. Those are things worth measuring. But what are the top? 3 that are most important to drive progress in your business right now.
Sambhav Mehta: So alright. So I didn't know where I jump in, but when I heard that example it kind of triggered that up
Sambhav Mehta: absolutely cool any other comments. Examples
Sambhav Mehta: also think about attending some trade shows, because most of our customers also, like within these type of numbers and trade shows as well. But I think this is one of the most expensive type of like finding customers.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, well, but let's break it down further. I'm gonna do this, you guys would be so annoyed by me because I knows that you guys remember you miss me guys, I'm here. So you go to the trade show for what
Sambhav Mehta: you want. Some potential customers. Right? Okay? So there's actions we take at the trade show to get those potential customers, the interactions. We're queuing up the meeting. Scheduled post trade show. Right? That's a metric. Oh, how do I enable the meeting? The number of people I interact with business cards? I get contact info. So the level of like measurement becomes a little bit more like granular, obsessive, detailed, not just trade shows attending.
Sambhav Mehta: So usually what we see from founders is like you have some big, like
Sambhav Mehta: almost vain metric, that you can highlight to say that you're doing something. But when we ask you what happened underneath. There's not a lot to show.
Sambhav Mehta: So what I'm asking you all to do is basically to break that down much more. Think through what actions am I in direct control of? Or if I had someone on my team, go do it.
Sambhav Mehta: How do I hold them accountable to actually deliver on the value that we're hoping to get out of this interact.
Sambhav Mehta: Right?
Sambhav Mehta: So trade shows one level break that down into 3 or 4 more steps that matter and figure out which of those matter the most to measure, and then bring that up in the Kpis
Sambhav Mehta: cool. Yeah, there's a ton of tools and stuff. But, like, I'm curious, I'm sure these guys what do you do?
Burhan Syed: For? What?
Sambhav Mehta: To measure your kpis. Where do you track them?
Burhan Syed: Spreadsheet.
Sambhav Mehta: There you go. Yeah, spreadsheets and a bunch of other tools. Yeah, if it ain't broke, don't fix it so start simple and then graduate to whatever you need to like, make things more efficient.
Sambhav Mehta: Cool. I'll shut up now. Sorry.
Sambhav Mehta: So the choice of the Kpi is really important. And so we are talking about number of meetings. What we we figured out is, it's actually the number of long productions
Sambhav Mehta: well, we don't care about the meeting. We do care about production with the customer. That is kind of a good prospects. And then we look at the consumption rates on these meetings.
Sambhav Mehta: and the reason why I'm saying that is because
Sambhav Mehta: what do you do to get those warm intros? Sorry. What do you do to get those warm intros
Sambhav Mehta: so
Sambhav Mehta: mean that we- we look for that. So we look for like the the in our in our network people that we can get a warming flow from.
Sambhav Mehta: But the point. The point on that is to say, I don't. I don't care about having 10 meetings
Sambhav Mehta: that you define when I have a that I've defined. I want to maximize it, and very often it's only a proxy and a rough proxy for what really matters to me, and so, choosing the proxy right and refining the proxy over time.
Sambhav Mehta: So, knowing that warm intros provide outsized value in your pipeline is good data to have about your sales process. But I want you to dig further into the activity or action. So when you're finding those warm intros, do you have to get on calls with people and get to know them, to get them to introduce you further up the chain is that called outbound to potential introducers.
Sambhav Mehta: When when we're talking about levers. When we're talking about Kpis, you want to make it so. If you increase the number.
Sambhav Mehta: the measurement of whatever you're doing, send 100 more emails that connects up to revenue. There'll be a delay. There'll be like a pathway and other steps to go through. But we want to get further out than the warm interest, because that's contingent on other people. What action can you do within brio to get further up that pipeline
Sambhav Mehta: this week? So like sent 200 Linkedin messages to people requesting more metros to us universities.
Sambhav Mehta: whatever whatever that looks like, or on anything to add, there.
Burhan Syed: I think it's important to note that your expected output.
Burhan Syed: Is a big driver in changing what your input looks like. A good example is like trade show thing, like, if you're doing the trade show trade show costs like 10 K. To set up a booth but the expected outcome. Here is, you want, you know, 20 enterprise customers to sign up to use it
Burhan Syed: right? Then you got. I guess you gotta figure out. Will this trade show even
Burhan Syed: result in that outcome? Or are there other alternatives that can result in that outcome? I bring up take shows actually, specifically, because we don't do trade shows
Burhan Syed: the reason we don't do trade shows is, if you go to any trade show within dental most of the attendees that are actually shopping around at these booths are smbs. And so, if my expected outcome is, I want 10 enterprise meetings. Well, that's not going to be hit if I get a if I spend 10 K. In a booth at a trade show instead, like
Burhan Syed: an alternative could be. And this is what we do, we reach out to like one of our one of our competitors, or like indirect competitors who's an incumbent who provides like a different solution, and we'll be like, Hey, we saw that. You guys sponsor this event. That means you have the attendee list. Send me that attendee list, please, like, I beg of you, and they send it to to you. Then you just have access to all those people, and you can just set up meetings with the people that you want, rather than having to pay 10 k. For a booth.
Burhan Syed: So I don't know. That's an example of like your expected outcome output is gonna influence, your input.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah. So in our business, I feel like we're both to be and B to C, and something that can directly impact revenue is probably marketing, which we haven't like spent any money on.
Sambhav Mehta: So how do we think about that as an input how do you think about marketing as an input to driving revenue.
Burhan Syed: Have you tried it?
Sambhav Mehta: No.
Burhan Syed: Well, give it a shot, man, and then let me know.
Sambhav Mehta: Well, so I think, just to add to that, you want to make some bets right? So in your mind you have some small bets that you want to make, and some assumptions about what you think might happen in a few categories. You don't have to leave it up to chance. You can do a lot of research to identify people within either your category or similar spaces, to study what they did and where they invested in marketing efforts early on that allowed them to make progress. What you need to do now is probably different than what you do later at scale.
Sambhav Mehta: so you might need to run a lot of small experiments, and we do do a workshop on that month, too. That's actually one of the ones led by the nutrition. CEO Dan. He talks about how he went from.
Sambhav Mehta: you know, 0 to 20 K. Monthly revenue, and then 20 k. To 100 K revenue. I know barhad and nurture. Remember that workshop. But that's when we get a little bit more nitty, gritty about a lot of those small experiments and what they could look like, and a lot of them don't actually need to cost money.
Sambhav Mehta: So one of the you know tips that you'll hear again later is, we actually don't even recommend you spend much or anything on marketing until you reach some sort of significant AR. So just keep that in mind, because people tend to make a huge mistake and overspend on marketing progress for sales before they've actually figured out where to spend properly.
Sambhav Mehta: what works.
Burhan Syed: Yep.
Sambhav Mehta: Awesome.
Sambhav Mehta: So to double tap here.
Sambhav Mehta: in terms of the inputs we want to be able to look at like how many hours per week. You're spending on your company like, how many hours a week
Sambhav Mehta: are you all spending? Someone show show the number?
Sambhav Mehta: I'm pretty bad.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay, that's okay. I should have asked
Sambhav Mehta: So if you're spending X number of hours per week, you want to be able to break down like, what am I doing in these hours that's driving these core kpis. If I spend more hours or do more of Xyz thing.
Sambhav Mehta: it'll show up in my primary metrics later down the line. You do the inputs and you track the outputs.
Sambhav Mehta: Sorry to jump in. I just want to clarify like, does anybody actually know like how much time you literally spend on your business.
Burhan Syed: Very interesting 36 h.
Sambhav Mehta: Right down. What's that wrong? Sorry.
Burhan Syed: 126 HA hundred 26 h.
Sambhav Mehta: 120. There we go. You see what he's doing. So what? What's your number? Like? 95, 9,52695. You see what's going on here. They're paying attention. I'm not saying you need to track it every week, but at least for one week. You should give it a shot.
Sambhav Mehta: How much time am I actually spending working on my business? And then, once you have that number, I bet you know how they spend those hours. They know the allocation of time and what activities they were up to within that time. They don't just know the wrong number. They know in detail what they were up to within that time period.
Sambhav Mehta: What Chloe is getting at is once you understand that? Then you take stock of? Am I spending a disproportionate amount of time driving my kpis and my progress. On what matters, or am I what we call the action?
Sambhav Mehta: Any old programmers in the room, know what I'm talking about? Yeah, you know what I'm talking about. Yeah. So we say that in programming, it means that you're doing a useless task. You're basically like doing. You're shaving here on the act, and the hair is going to come back. So the whole notion is that founders tend to gravitate towards activities
Sambhav Mehta: that allow you to. You know. Stir the pot when you don't need to. You just like when you're cooking, and you need to let the food marinate or simmer, you're just stirring it for no reason.
Sambhav Mehta: So founders tend to end up doing those things even without knowing.
Sambhav Mehta: So this is how you identify some of those issues
Sambhav Mehta: absolutely and in in terms of the inputs, it like it could be outbound. Whatever for for touch points like Burhan is insane at email, like he's the fastest email responder I know, because he's constantly talking to clients like always he's always responding to customers, whatever it may be sending outbound whatever he's always on his email, not saying that that's the right thing for everyone. But he's really, really locked in on
Sambhav Mehta: driving revenue through those customer touch points, and like, I'm not in his business. And I I can see that very clearly by how he operates
Sambhav Mehta: alright into leading and lagging indicators. We already talked a little bit about this. But these leading indicators, these are
Sambhav Mehta: your inputs.
Sambhav Mehta: So they help you see into the future. Looking out the front window.
Sambhav Mehta: Your lagging indicators are looking out the back window. It's tracking the progress you've made in the past.
Sambhav Mehta: So these are your outputs lagging outputs leading inputs.
Sambhav Mehta: You good there.
Sambhav Mehta: So your lagging indicators help you identify patterns over time. And as plan strategically, the leading indicators help you decide what to do in the present, what to optimize for what? To spend your time on.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, at at a high level, though. With the primary secondary.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: so is it just even what you're going to do in the future, lagging like what's happening. And so you define the leading based on the lagging.
Sambhav Mehta: So with these.
Sambhav Mehta: I don't know if you have any way you like to describe this. But going back to these primary
Sambhav Mehta: kpis here.
Sambhav Mehta: these are the results of the actions that you're doing in your secondary Kpis. So say your secondary, Kpi is sending a ton of outbound.
Sambhav Mehta: That's what you're doing. That's your leading indicator. It's where you're going in the future, and the revenue that comes out of it would be a lagging indicator showing the results of what you've done past, because there's that gap between action and like seeing the results of your action.
Sambhav Mehta: Is that clear? We?
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: Do you want me
Sambhav Mehta: where you're kind of trying to bring people bring prospects to inform. You might have like people reach out to you.
Sambhav Mehta: That's but you don't know why they're reaching out to you.
Sambhav Mehta: That's an output
Sambhav Mehta: indicator. But it's also a leading indicator in the sense that the 1st time they reach out to you
Sambhav Mehta: it's a good predictor of what will happen in the future.
Sambhav Mehta: So that's to me. That's something that really happens to me. It's a it's an output metric. It's not something that I've done, or it's really hard to know what I've done. But it's also a good predictor of what's going to happen in the future. If I receive more of these. It means that
Sambhav Mehta: so ideally, what I have for me is I want input metrics because I can drive them. And because that gives you kind of a forward looking view on what's going to happen.
Sambhav Mehta: And as far as presenting that in investors, I want to, I want to present 90 indicators to investors.
Sambhav Mehta: because they are more of a hard piece of the fact that I'm creating somebody.
Sambhav Mehta: And there are also things that are where I'm less likely, as things progress into the future.
Sambhav Mehta: It's easier to kind of forecast lagging indicators because they're lacking. So you know that there might be something that happens before or we should have. So that's how
Sambhav Mehta: there's a multiple module items as well.
Sambhav Mehta: Alright, let's talk vanity metrics.
Sambhav Mehta: Has anyone tracked vanity metrics before paid attention to them.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, that's what's that face?
Sambhav Mehta: How many, how many people watch my story on the on the new product launch, or something like that? It doesn't matter, you know, or there are more dangerous ones. Good example here.
Sambhav Mehta: okay, yeah. And then followers, yeah, that's the same. That's the same kind.
Sambhav Mehta: things like being featured in newspapers, or something, or like articles from your home, city or country. It doesn't really matter, like it doesn't make it. Are your readers, your customers, maybe, but if that's not the case, then it's totally irrelevant.
Sambhav Mehta: Anyone else.
Sambhav Mehta: They think impressions like interaction on Linkedin, for instance, like
Sambhav Mehta: yeah number of hours you've worked on your business this week.
Sambhav Mehta: Yes, that's correct.
Sambhav Mehta: I agree with that.
Sambhav Mehta: I think you need to know underneath that what matters right? So like. For example, one I heard during our CEO small because I forgot who said it. It was a website. Visitors.
Sambhav Mehta: right?
Sambhav Mehta: It doesn't matter how many people come to your site. It matters what they do when they get there.
Sambhav Mehta: Absolutely so huge thing. Here. We want things to be actionable
Sambhav Mehta: the relative horsepower of your vehicle doesn't matter. The check engine light. You need to do something about it.
Sambhav Mehta: For, like daily active users versus total sign ups
Sambhav Mehta: it helps you identify the gaps in the pipeline.
Sambhav Mehta: And another another sort of
Sambhav Mehta: another thing. I see founders fall victim to a lot is relying on cumulative metrics versus metrics that actually show change in time. So total revenue
Sambhav Mehta: is not tracking your progress over time. We need to see, whatever whatever cadence makes sense for your business, whether it's monthly weekly. Net new revenue.
Sambhav Mehta: as a sales metric
Sambhav Mehta: cadence will look different for every business. But we want to see changes over time. Mr. Whatever that may be. An active representation of where you are now, versus the entire history of your business in a single number.
Sambhav Mehta: Good.
Sambhav Mehta: Alright, I this is this is fun. So
Sambhav Mehta: Brad, likes to talk about this golden metric when when talking about the super user? So do. Do you all have super users.
Sambhav Mehta: Meg? I know you've got super users who who are who are your super users.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah. Big advertising agency.
Sambhav Mehta: one- one user. She lives in the platform and she's constantly going to it. We look at every single company that she's research.
Sambhav Mehta: and she's never gonna turn
Sambhav Mehta: like it's not really like in in the near term in the near term. She's she's totally secure. Then, Berhan, you've got your example with the enterprise price clients versus Smbs. But do you want to talk a little bit more about the evolution from like dental practices to Dso. Specifically
Sambhav Mehta: and like how that group got bigger and bigger over time.
Sambhav Mehta: like the the level you're selling to change over time.
Burhan Syed: Yeah, I mean, has nothing to do with the golden metric, I guess. But what did you want me to specifically touch on like the the transition in sales or like, do you want me to touch on sort of like what Kpis were focused on
Burhan Syed: with those 2 types of customers.
Sambhav Mehta: Let's touch on both of those, and then we'll get back to the golden metric. And I know this is a little bit of a different situation. But
Sambhav Mehta: it's more archetypal than like, specifically an individual super user. But I think the example would still be helpful.
Burhan Syed: Yeah, I mean, I think it's important to distinguish the user from the customer. Right? That's a good place to start. Who is the user versus who's the customer? The customer in my
Burhan Syed: in my business is the Dso. So it's usually the chief operating officer or the chief marketing officer. But the user is not that person, and that person is not likely to have any engagement with the product whatsoever. So actually, the super users on our end are the receptionist. They spend the most amount of time looking at the calls and engaging with the product. And so really, what we had to figure out was, how does that scale across the Dso. And how do we make the
Burhan Syed: the Ui, or the product more useful for that power user rather than for the customer. Because if you're if your customer is the Cmo and like, you're focused on creating all these like different
Burhan Syed: features or metrics around that it doesn't really make sense, because the user at the end of the day is not gonna have any use for it. So I guess that's 1 point to touch on.
Burhan Syed: Anything else you want me to touch on specifically.
Sambhav Mehta: I will run through this last slide, so we can leave more time for questions and just chatting. But learning more about your business.
Sambhav Mehta: So
Sambhav Mehta: with this super user, we're gonna do this a lot during jobs. But we want to understand their story, and the activities that lead them to becoming a super user. So what's their role? What are their job functions? What are they using your product for? How are you enabling them? And how do they find you? A lot of this data will come through jobs. But then you'll be able to optimize, to essentially create more
Sambhav Mehta: super users. So an example of this like golden metric, Facebook, do people know the Facebook golden metric like the one thing where, if that happens, that person is a Facebook customer for for life.
Sambhav Mehta: 20 friends. You had 20 people on Facebook. You're basically stuck on the platform forever. You're never going to delete your account. You return, return to it consistently. Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: yeah, yeah, for for super users.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay, you said customer. I'm like that. That's not the Facebook customer. That's the user.
Sambhav Mehta: Thanks. Thanks for clarifying. We're we're talking about super users here.
Sambhav Mehta: Got him.
Sambhav Mehta: It's
Sambhav Mehta: right. Okay, so thinking about this, we want to think about how we can optimize that journey. We're gonna map out this journey to becoming a super user and see what we can do to make more of your users. Super users find more of these people who are on this pathway to become your super users. And you can build Kpis around making that pathway cleaner
Sambhav Mehta: Also, like last little thing here, this is, gonna be hard.
Sambhav Mehta: You're gonna measure stuff week over week, and sometimes it's gonna go wrong. And you're gonna have to like, base all your actions out of these numbers that like make sense one week and then feel really rough and difficult. The next week. Just keep testing your assumptions. It'll it'll get easier over time.
Sambhav Mehta: and then really, quickly. Here, I wanna run back to the 3 year visions we were talking about on goal setting calls.
Sambhav Mehta: What is one thing that you have to get right for that to happen.
Sambhav Mehta: Anyone wanna shout something out like what has to go right to get to your your 3 year goal?
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, right? Product.
Sambhav Mehta: What was it? What would you say? Great product, the right product?
Sambhav Mehta: Okay? Well, within the right product. There's things right? There's an activity outcome that your user customer wants.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay?
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah. Well, well, no. But think about it. You're what are you trying to help people do? I? I know. But I'm I'm asking as a thought exercise
Sambhav Mehta: kind of help. But I'm self work hard.
Sambhav Mehta: sell more cars, right? So there's some action within your system that you're affording them that is disproportionately likely to lead to that out.
Sambhav Mehta: I don't know what it is, you know, better than me. There's all these action that they take from signing up for May to getting like the cars sold.
Sambhav Mehta: and within that there's some key thing that if you pinpoint this has the highest sensitivity, meaning by influencing it, the likelihood of the outcome being achieved, the customer
Sambhav Mehta: right? So for Facebook that would say, like, they're they're what was it the magic
Sambhav Mehta: you call it? The golden golden Metric? There's something else that was called.
Sambhav Mehta: Thank you.
Sambhav Mehta: Anyway, whatever doesn't matter, there's lots of different versions of it. But at the end of the day each of you within your businesses have that someone. You haven't figured it out yet. You may not know it, but once you do, most of your orientation and effort can go to drive that
Sambhav Mehta: we need that, so we'll help you figure that out hopefully.
Sambhav Mehta: Awesome. Yeah, something to think about over the next couple days weeks.
Sambhav Mehta: what do you need to get right?
Sambhav Mehta: And how do you direct an outsized amount of effort and attention to testing that and getting closer to getting it right? I actually, I have a quick story to share. So, Jake, when I was in Detroit, Jake and Bob, a few weeks ago
Sambhav Mehta: something, something came up that Jake didn't even explain to me. I think I talked too loud. So the quick story is.
Sambhav Mehta: I found out this is proprietary, of course. So in the family I think they get
Sambhav Mehta: 15% retention right now. So 85% of their users end up training.
Sambhav Mehta: which isn't bad like for for them the amount of volume, the amount of users that they're getting.
Sambhav Mehta: But the actual magic moment is that if someone signs up for zest
Sambhav Mehta: and if they cook a meal
Sambhav Mehta: their retention is almost 0. Right now, they're trying to 0 after they get someone to make one meal on this.
Sambhav Mehta: So that to me is an obvious
Sambhav Mehta: opportunity, I'm 85% of the people I'm losing. But if my 15 basically at least made one or more meetings.
Sambhav Mehta: so what do you do?
Sambhav Mehta: Everything in my power to get some of that 85% to cook a meal. So what are all the different activities behaviors I can encourage? Can I incentivize them to actually get that done? Can I make an easier set of initial recipes so that the meal you cook 1st is actually not even that hard. It's what you already have in your kitchen so many things, and it was so funny because Jake is thoughtful as he is, hadn't thought of that as we were talking about.
Sambhav Mehta: and didn't have any more data to back that up. So that was a great moment a couple of weeks ago. This is 2 years after tech start.
Sambhav Mehta: That's what you know. It never gets old. There's always new things to ask in question. The key metrics that he had golden metric that he had 2 years ago different than the one today. And we're always evolving and thinking
Sambhav Mehta: awesome. So we're gonna keep thinking about this and talking about this additional things to keep in mind.
Sambhav Mehta: your Kpis. It. It's a it's a measure of your impact on the business. It's incredibly important. The entire team needs to know what these are and understand what the role is in driving them.
Sambhav Mehta: building Kpis into the everyday culture of your business is critical having a shared language on how you track measure, and where these Kpis live is going to be critical. Who owns these processes? And how do you experiment and optimize to figure out what these levers are that let you move progress.
Sambhav Mehta: progress consistently and effectively. And when are you gonna sit down and and talk about these numbers. When are you gonna reevaluate them? We have our Kps sessions with our ers that are gonna pop up later in program which are really good benchmark. But after
Sambhav Mehta: after program you'll have to come up with a more clear shared language and division of responsibilities around all of this.
Sambhav Mehta: and I'll share this deck as well.
Sambhav Mehta: But
Sambhav Mehta: we have 6 min. Anyone want to share examples of Kpis that you're thinking about right now, or Han can give some feedback.
Sambhav Mehta: Simple, but I'm very excited.
Sambhav Mehta: Give us both.
Sambhav Mehta: So for me, I'm thinking about the very 1st top of the funnel would be like how many 1st call like new customer calls I have, and then what my conversion rate is, if they sign up for proof of concept, what what percentage of the proof of concept turn into annual subscribers, or I've run some tests where I've skipped doing a proof of concept. But I kind of like having a proof of concept. That's a whole other thing. But I think that, you know. Obviously, revenue is our number one, and then win rate is going to be our second, too.
Sambhav Mehta: Win rate. So is that like
Sambhav Mehta: your customers getting like sales like the value that your customers are receiving. Well, I was thinking, number of the 1st calls that we, the number of people that we engage with and get on a call to. How many of them turn into an actual audit. Great? Yeah.
Sambhav Mehta: I do have a quick question for you. Have you looked into seeing if you could find out for those companies like, if you all of dentist offices, there might be a way for you to find out how many phone calls they have, because if they're using like a voice software like Ringcentral, you might be able to find out, like what how many calls per day they already have, so that that way you could filter down your list.
Burhan Syed: Yeah, no, you're absolutely right. That's exactly what we do. The issue is, Smbs don't necessarily use modern VoIP systems. Which is another reason why we no longer work with them is because, you know, they literally use a landline that doesn't track any of that stuff. So
Burhan Syed: out of like the dozen smbs we'd signed about. You know, 80% of them didn't have any metrics on on how many calls they were getting. So they just assumed.
Sambhav Mehta: Good.
Sambhav Mehta: Okay, cool.
Sambhav Mehta: She needs to think I had a question
Sambhav Mehta: just when we're going back to the thing of like.
Sambhav Mehta: or can you put effort into, I guess, move that level. And I was saying, like, even you go from calls and then leads. Whatever
Sambhav Mehta: is the action that we put into booking. More calls.
Sambhav Mehta: Is that a kpi, as in, say, to get more calls, I need to do more I don't know.
Sambhav Mehta: Outbound I'm like is that itself a kpi. Is that just an action.
Burhan Syed: No, absolutely. I think it's a Kpi.
Burhan Syed: I think, where most people fall flat is. They assume that the number of whatever they do
Burhan Syed: is automatically going to result in X amount of like revenue.
Burhan Syed: That's not necessarily the case. So if you I don't know if you're doing like a hundred outbound calls and only 1% convert into meetings.
Burhan Syed: They're like, okay, cool. I just need to up the number of calls I'm making. And and that'll that'll be great. So you're focusing on, you know, the number of calls you're making. But you're not focused on that 1% metric, and that 1% metric is going to probably be unless you have a very small sample size representative of every call you make, regardless of how many you do. So that point you have to figure out, okay, is this the Kpi that I want to keep tracking the number of calls?
Burhan Syed: Or do I just shift strategies and move to warm intros. And that's how I how I track. You know the success there.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, or you scrutinize the calls themselves, am I actually doing the actions within these calls to lead to the maximum of conversion, potential or not, so be more scrutiny of the actions rather than just
Sambhav Mehta: like getting the number. I guess right. I'm getting one conversion, for every one of your calls could say, well, I need to do a thousand calls, and then I'll get, you know, 10 or more conversions I'm like that's not smart at all. It's not dissimilar from customer interviews which Vcs make the mistake of quantifying or qualifying all the time. They think that by you doing more customer interviews, that's good.
Sambhav Mehta: and we know that's wrong as well. Quality before quantity. So quality reps all day long. Am I paying attention to what I'm actually doing within the action that I'm measuring or not
Sambhav Mehta: can't hear you, because I think you're soft spoken.
Sambhav Mehta: I'm not. We're we're figuring it out because kind of just happened. But like one of the 1st users who paid for like a monthly subscription, they ran more. It's not just the number of scrapes or harvest we call harvest that were run web scrapes that were run on our platform. But it's how short a period that was done. So you ran like 22, within
Sambhav Mehta: 30 min.
Sambhav Mehta: Whereas we've other users who know they ran maybe 10 to 20 over the course of the week. But he ran it really short period of time. The next day he subscribed like me, so I don't know if that's a if there's a number plus like a timeframe or session time that makes it even more relevant. But that might be something that we're gonna start tracking a little more.
Burhan Syed: I mean, the entire point of Kpis is, you take a X amount of time, and you track the kpi over that amount of time right? And I think time is the most valuable predictor of any changes you make to the Kpis.
Sambhav Mehta: So if anyone needs to step out, welcome to anyone else have any final questions, Neil, any final thoughts before we wrap it up. Yeah, my final thought is that again, this.
Sambhav Mehta: this has the potential for many people to feel like a slog, right? Something that you kind of. Just.
Sambhav Mehta: You don't take as seriously. You kind of waffle around you like stumble into usually coming off of inter madness in the month, too. There's always a few companies that we have to like, pull aside after the 1st session and go. Okay, let's take a deeper look at what these metrics are.
Sambhav Mehta: because it's almost like they treat it like homework, like we're holding you accountable to something you need to report on. I'm like, that's not the point of this at all. It should be all about getting excited, about how well you understand what's actually driving progress in your business.
Sambhav Mehta: This is not for us for you. So my only ask in the next few weeks is like, scrutinize the kpis, go deep, dig in. Ask other people who you think are really data driven in their decision, making what they think of how you're thinking about what you're evaluating the business.
Sambhav Mehta: Because at the end of the day, if you're gonna expect someone to write you a million dollar check. Someday.
Sambhav Mehta: I would imagine that if you had to make an investment in the founder you want the one that isn't kind of lazily working their way through their business, and instead being way more scientific about how they're making decisions every day with how they spend their time. And the team signing up.
Sambhav Mehta: So that's the whole point of it. So I hope that message comes across and you lean on us to like, make sure you're dialing in these metrics. Best.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah. Yeah. And also, these are the things that you should be bragging about your investors, your customers on your website. Like, if you track all your kpis, you know where you're excellent. So you know, to emphasize that in your messaging, and that will lead to all sorts of good things. What's an example of one of yours that you're proud of?
Sambhav Mehta: Look a recent one. I went.
Sambhav Mehta: I went to a party with a product that was meant for events, and I was wearing a sign, saying, Are you meeting the right people at the party? And I spoke to over a hundred people because I was wearing a sign. Yes, I was a dumbass, like, you know, I have a doctorate in music guys, right? But I was walking around with a sign.
Sambhav Mehta: and that worked. And I put that into the investor update. And I'm like, Look, I talked to this many people that many signed up to learn more. And and not many people actually did the meeting with me. So you know, I know that that needs to be improved. But I know what works and what didn't.
Sambhav Mehta: Let's measure, not everything, but as much as we can around the whole process for, like maybe a month or something like that, or I don't know the timeline, but something like that, and then decide which kpis, we think, drives like we finalize drugs everything, and then you can also reasonably estimate what you think matters.
Sambhav Mehta: And if by measuring those key things now, it's indicating progress, great start to measure more over time.
Sambhav Mehta: And if you're wrong, switch it up so if it's too much to bite off too much to measure, just make bets on what matters like. Chloe just went over a few hints and examples and patterns that we already know exist. But again, each of your respective businesses and industries already have things that matter. So if you have a either a competitor or an adjacent business within the the. You know the category. Talk to those companies.
Sambhav Mehta: What do they measure what drives their progress like you don't have to just leave it all up to chance or in your own mind, like you can actually study other people with similar business models
Sambhav Mehta: and figure out what's what's important.
Sambhav Mehta: right lot of ways to do it. But bottom line is like, if you don't feel like you have control over your business progress. Something's wrong, and you should be able to measure something to indicate that.
Sambhav Mehta: Oh.
Sambhav Mehta: how are you balancing like those good question on the business versus in the business measurement of Kpis. Any thoughts there about how you guys track your actual business like effort
Sambhav Mehta: within the team.
Burhan Syed: Yeah, I mean, dashboards. We. I'll share my screen. Actually, there we go. It's
Burhan Syed: super important. I'm gonna send you a request, Chloe, to share my screen.
Sambhav Mehta: By the way, that's as an investor. That's always a good sign. When you're talking to a founder you ask them a question, and they go. Let me show you that is like love it when founders do that.
Burhan Syed: That is a Mohammed staple.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah, let's make it real.
Burhan Syed: All right.
Burhan Syed: Do that one suck.
Sambhav Mehta: Awesome.
Sambhav Mehta: That's the trick I use when I.
Burhan Syed: Alright. I'm back sorry about that.
Sambhav Mehta: Yeah.
Burhan Syed: Let's collapse this guy.
Burhan Syed: Alright. So this is our dashboard for all the internal metrics. This is all fake. By the way, it's our demo environment. I can't show you our actual stuff because we're hipaa compliance but you know new patients registered, appointments scheduled. How many rescheduled, how many canceled
Burhan Syed: pretty much. We multiply this internally by like X number. So we know new patients result in 100 K in Ltv
Burhan Syed: on average. So that's 21 times 100 k. Appointments scheduled. An average appointment is about $250. So multiply that by 20 and then cancellations, you know you take that away. Multiply by 2 50 and take it away from the total number. So that's how much revenue we generated for
Burhan Syed: for a customer. So that's kind of our dashboard. How we're tracking things internally.
Sambhav Mehta: See it. Any apartment thoughts for hunt, anything you wish you knew at this point in Techstar, 3 days, in that you think they need to.
Burhan Syed: They're 3 days in.
Sambhav Mehta: They're 3 days.
Burhan Syed: Okay.
Burhan Syed: I heard the last cohort didn't really have fun during or not that they didn't have fun. They just didn't go really wild during during Lake Tahoe. I highly recommend it.
Burhan Syed: I'll send some pictures. There's multiple pictures of me in like shorts, a towel wrapped around my head like with a bottle of tequila running around the house. I highly recommend someone. Replicate that.
Burhan Syed: Because you will, Miss Tahoe, like this is the last time I think you'll ever see all of the people in your cohort again.
Burhan Syed: So yeah, highly recommend going a little wild on at Lake Tahoe. What else
Sambhav Mehta: You're talking about like the the hot tub hot takes. Is that what you're talking about?
Burhan Syed: No, I actually wasn't a part of hot tub hot takes. I didn't get invited.
Sambhav Mehta: I got it.
Burhan Syed: Yeah, no, I was I. I was.
Sambhav Mehta: It's so cool.
Burhan Syed: I think the other thing that nobody like really focused on in our cohort earlier on was talking to customers. I think everyone really really struggled with that.
Burhan Syed: But, like there is no better way of building your business than talking to customers, I highly highly recommend it. Talk to them all the time. My calendar is literally full with check-ins every week, with all of our customers, from the smallest to the biggest.
Burhan Syed: It's super important. It's gonna be very, very. So actually,
Burhan Syed: you would be surprised about this. And Chloe mentioned this earlier, which is the email thing for us.
Burhan Syed: The
Burhan Syed: biggest reason our customers stay with us is because we respond to their emails in under an hour. We actually have a company like rule. Nobody responds to a customer past like an hour. So you have to respond under an hour. That is the biggest reason your customers stick with you because you respond to them very quickly, and you're always on top of their sort of issues.
Burhan Syed: and I think a part of that is like really just figuring out, how can you create those touch points? And it becomes super super important. During fundraising which I just got out of
Burhan Syed: your investors will talk to your customers and the single biggest reason our investors invested in us was because our customers hopped on call and said, we love them. They're literally there for us all the time they respond to our emails immediately, like, yeah, even more than even more important than product, I think, is is responding to your customers in a timely manner. So yeah, that's my spiel. I got to hop off hopefully. That
Burhan Syed: cheers.
Burhan Syed: Thanks, guys.
Sambhav Mehta: And so any advice.